docs: single experiment view (#660)
langchain-ai/langsmith-docs: docs/evaluation/how_to_guides/analyze_single_experiment.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Analyze a single experiment
After running an experiment, you can use the LangSmith experiment view to analyze the results and draw insights about how your application is performing.

## Open the experiment view

> To open the experiment view, select an experiment from the "Experiments" tab from a given dataset page.

Reviewer: Ah I was talking about the tab on the side nav! We should start users from there. Hows this: 

To open the experiment view, select an experiment from the **Dataset & Experiments** page, select the relevant Dataset and make sure you're on the **Experiments** tab.

> To open the experiment view, select an experiment from the "Experiments" tab from a given dataset page.

Reviewer: realized my english made no sense and updated ^

![Open experiment view](./static/select_experiment.png)

## View experiment results
You can view the results of the experiment in the table view. This will show the input, output, and reference output for each dataset example.

Each feedback key will be displayed in a separate column. These are the feedback scores from any evaluators you have run on the experiment.
Each of the metrics (latency, status, cost, and token count) will also be displayed in individual columns.

In the columns dropdown, you can choose which columns to hide and which to show.

![Experiment view](./static/experiment_view.png)

## Sort and filter
To sort or filter results, you can use the actions in the column headers.

![Sort and filter](./static/sort_filter.png)

## Heatmap view
The experiment view defaults to a heatmap view, where feedback scores for each run are highlighted in a color.
Red indicates a lower score, while green indicates a higher score.
The heatmap visualization makes it easy to identify patterns, spot outliers, and understand score distributions across your dataset at a glance.

> ![Heatmap view](./static/heatmap.png)

Author: replacing this with a better screenshot

## Diff view

> You can toggle the view between a compact view, a full, view, and a diff view. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the view most useful for your analysis, you can change the formatting of the table by toggling between a compact view, a full, view, and a diff view. 
```

- The `Compact` view shows each run as a one-line row, for ease of comparing scores at a glance.
- The `Full` view shows the full output for each run for digging into the details of individual runs.
- The `Diff` view shows the text difference between the reference output and the output for each run.

![Diff view](./static/diff_mode.png)

## View the traces
Hover over any of the output cells, and click on the trace icon to view the trace for that run. This will open up a trace in the side panel.

![View trace](./static/view_trace.png)

To view the entire tracing project, click on the "View Project" button in the top right of the header.

![View trace project](./static/view_trace_project.png)

## View evaluator runs

> For evaluator scores, you can view the source run by hovering over the evaluator score cell and clicking on the arrow icon. This will open up a trace in the side panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For evaluator scores, you can view the source run by hovering over the evaluator score cell and clicking on the arrow icon. This will open up a trace in the side panel. If you're running a LLM-as-a-judge evaluator, you can view the prompt used for the evaluator in this run. 
```

> If your experiment has repetitions, you can click on the aggregate average score to find links to all of the individual runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your experiment has [repetitions](./evaluation/concepts#repetitions), you can click on the aggregate average score to find links to all of the individual runs.
```

![View evaluator runs](./static/evaluator_run.png)

## Repetitions

> If you've run your experiment with repetitions, your output results will appear with toggles to view each of the individual runs directly in the table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've run your experiment with [repetitions](./evaluation/concepts#repetitions), there will be arrows in the output results column so you can view outputs in the table. To view each run from the repetition, hover over the output cell and click the expanded view.

When you run an experiment with repetitions, LangSmith displays the average for each feedback score in the table. Click on the feedback score to view the feedback scores from individual runs, or to view the standard deviation across repetitions. 
```
